WARP.md, before:

# WARP.md

This file provides guidance to WARP (warp.dev) when working with code in this repository.

Project summary
- Stack: Django 5.2 (Python), single project (bookshop) with one main app (book_shop_here)
- Env/config: Settings read from a .env at repo root via django-environ; database configured via dj-database-url (SQLite by default; PostgreSQL supported)
- Auth/permissions: Uses Django auth plus django-group-model with a GroupProfile for metadata; CRUD views are permission-gated
- CI: .github/workflows/django.yml installs requirements and runs python manage.py test with SECRET_KEY and DATABASE_URL provided via GitHub Secrets

Common commands
- Environment setup (bash)
  - Install uv
    - curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
  - Sync dependencies (creates/updates .venv)
    - uv sync --all-extras
- Database
  - Make migrations
    - uv run python manage.py makemigrations
  - Apply migrations
    - uv run python manage.py migrate
- Run server
  - uv run python manage.py runserver
- Checks
  - Django system checks
    - uv run python manage.py check
- Tests (Django test runner)
  - All tests
    - uv run python manage.py test
  - Single file
    - uv run python manage.py test book_shop_here.tests.test_models
  - Single test case
    - uv run python manage.py test book_shop_here.tests.test_models.BookModelTests
  - Single test method
    - uv run python manage.py test book_shop_here.tests.test_models.BookModelTests.test_book_str

Environment and configuration
- .env lives at repo root (next to manage.py) and should include at minimum:
  - SECRET_KEY
  - DEBUG (True/False)
  - ALLOWED_HOSTS (comma-separated)
  - DATABASE_URL
- Defaults
  - For local dev, DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///db.sqlite3 works out of the box
- CI variables
  - Workflow uses: secrets.DJANGO_SECRET_KEY → SECRET_KEY, secrets.DJANGO_DATABASE_URL → DATABASE_URL

Architecture overview
- Project layout
  - bookshop/ (project): settings.py reads .env, configures dj-database-url, installs django_extensions and the app; template search path includes <repo>/templates and app templates
  - book_shop_here/ (app): domain models, forms, views, urls, migrations, and templates
- Domain model highlights (book_shop_here/models.py)
  - GroupProfile: One-to-one with Group, stores description
  - Employee: Links to auth User and a Group; helpers
    - create_with_user(password, ...): creates a matching User and Employee, assigning group and syncing names/email
    - sync_user(): keeps the linked User in sync (names/email/username/group)
    - _generate_username(): first.last with numeric suffix on collision
    - set_password(): updates linked User password
  - Author, Book, Customer: Basic entities with __str__ helpers; Book has constrained choices and optional legacy_id
  - Order: Many-to-many to Book; save() computes sale_amount from books; completed_order() marks books sold and updates status/date
- Views and routing (book_shop_here/views.py, urls.py)
  - Class-based views for CRUD on Books, Authors, Orders, Groups, Employees, Customers
  - Access control uses LoginRequiredMixin and PermissionRequiredMixin with model-specific codenames (e.g., book_shop_here.add_book)
  - HomeView redirects authenticated users to the book list; BookListView supports query string search (q) across title/legacy_id and filters available books
  - Templates under book_shop_here/templates/ with resource-specific list/form/delete templates and registration/login.html
- Settings of note (bookshop/settings.py)
  - environ.Env.read_env(BASE_DIR/.env)
  - DATABASES['default'] from env.db('DATABASE_URL')
  - INSTALLED_APPS includes django_extensions and book_shop_here
  - LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL='/' and LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL uses the app's home route

What to reference from README
- Setup sequence: use uv to create the virtualenv and install from pyproject.toml (uv sync)
- .env keys: SECRET_KEY, DEBUG, ALLOWED_HOSTS, DATABASE_URL (SQLite by default)
- Migrations then runserver; superuser created with uv run python manage.py createsuperuser
- Optional PostgreSQL by setting DATABASE_URL

Notes for future agents
- No repo-defined linter (e.g., flake8/pylint) is configured; use python manage.py check for framework-level validation
- Tests rely on Django’s built-in test runner; pytest is not present in requirements
- Permissions are enforced in views; when extending or adding views, ensure appropriate permission codenames are used

Tooling defaults (standardized)
- Shell: bash first. On Windows, use Git Bash. PowerShell is supported only where explicitly noted.
- CI (GitHub Actions): ubuntu-latest uses bash by default; uv is installed via curl | sh; commands run with uv run ...
- Husky: .husky/pre-commit is POSIX sh and calls `uv run pre-commit run --hook-stage pre-commit`; falls back to `pre-commit` if `uv` is unavailable.
- VS Code: .vscode/settings.json sets terminal.integrated.defaultProfile.windows to "Git Bash"; tasks.json forces bash as the shell for tasks. Launch uses the integrated terminal, so it will use Git Bash.

Commit message:

UI: unify form action buttons with Tailwind (green Save, red Cancel); add tests to enforce styling; Tailwind safelist for select chevron; remove broad overrides; fix recursion in tests by inlining actions; add global testing rule in WARP.md to always maintain tests with code changes.

WARP.md, after:

# WARP.md

This file provides guidance to WARP (warp.dev) when working with code in this repository.

Project summary
- Stack: Django 5.2 (Python), single project (bookshop) with one main app (book_shop_here)
- Env/config: Settings read from a .env at repo root via django-environ; database configured via dj-database-url (SQLite by default; PostgreSQL supported)
- Auth/permissions: Uses Django auth plus django-group-model with a GroupProfile for metadata; CRUD views are permission-gated
- CI: .github/workflows/django.yml installs requirements and runs python manage.py test with SECRET_KEY and DATABASE_URL provided via GitHub Secrets

Common commands
- Environment setup (bash)
  - Install uv
    - curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
  - Sync dependencies (creates/updates .venv)
    - uv sync --all-extras
- Database
  - Make migrations
    - uv run python manage.py makemigrations
  - Apply migrations
    - uv run python manage.py migrate
- Run server
  - uv run python manage.py runserver
- Checks
  - Django system checks
    - uv run python manage.py check
- Tests (Django test runner)
  - All tests
    - uv run python manage.py test
  - Single file
    - uv run python manage.py test book_shop_here.tests.test_models
  - Single test case
    - uv run python manage.py test book_shop_here.tests.test_models.BookModelTests
  - Single test method
    - uv run python manage.py test book_shop_here.tests.test_models.BookModelTests.test_book_str

Environment and configuration
- .env lives at repo root (next to manage.py) and should include at minimum:
  - SECRET_KEY
  - DEBUG (True/False)
  - ALLOWED_HOSTS (comma-separated)
  - DATABASE_URL
- Defaults
  - For local dev, DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///db.sqlite3 works out of the box
- CI variables
  - Workflow uses: secrets.DJANGO_SECRET_KEY → SECRET_KEY, secrets.DJANGO_DATABASE_URL → DATABASE_URL

Architecture overview
- Project layout
  - bookshop/ (project): settings.py reads .env, configures dj-database-url, installs django_extensions and the app; template search path includes <repo>/templates and app templates
  - book_shop_here/ (app): domain models, forms, views, urls, migrations, and templates
- Domain model highlights (book_shop_here/models.py)
  - GroupProfile: One-to-one with Group, stores description
  - Employee: Links to auth User and a Group; helpers
    - create_with_user(password, ...): creates a matching User and Employee, assigning group and syncing names/email
    - sync_user(): keeps the linked User in sync (names/email/username/group)
    - _generate_username(): first.last with numeric suffix on collision
    - set_password(): updates linked User password
  - Author, Book, Customer: Basic entities with __str__ helpers; Book has constrained choices and optional legacy_id
  - Order: Many-to-many to Book; save() computes sale_amount from books; completed_order() marks books sold and updates status/date
- Views and routing (book_shop_here/views.py, urls.py)
  - Class-based views for CRUD on Books, Authors, Orders, Groups, Employees, Customers
  - Access control uses LoginRequiredMixin and PermissionRequiredMixin with model-specific codenames (e.g., book_shop_here.add_book)
  - HomeView redirects authenticated users to the book list; BookListView supports query string search (q) across title/legacy_id and filters available books
  - Templates under book_shop_here/templates/ with resource-specific list/form/delete templates and registration/login.html
- Settings of note (bookshop/settings.py)
  - environ.Env.read_env(BASE_DIR/.env)
  - DATABASES['default'] from env.db('DATABASE_URL')
  - INSTALLED_APPS includes django_extensions and book_shop_here
  - LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL='/' and LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL uses the app's home route

What to reference from README
- Setup sequence: use uv to create the virtualenv and install from pyproject.toml (uv sync)
- .env keys: SECRET_KEY, DEBUG, ALLOWED_HOSTS, DATABASE_URL (SQLite by default)
- Migrations then runserver; superuser created with uv run python manage.py createsuperuser
- Optional PostgreSQL by setting DATABASE_URL

Notes for future agents
- No repo-defined linter (e.g., flake8/pylint) is configured; use python manage.py check for framework-level validation
- Tests rely on Django’s built-in test runner; pytest is not present in requirements
- Permissions are enforced in views; when extending or adding views, ensure appropriate permission codenames are used

Global testing rule (always-on)
- For every change to production code, templates, or styles that affect rendering or behavior, always:
  1) Add or update tests that cover the new or changed behavior, and remove or rewrite any tests whose assertions are no longer valid.
  2) Prefer focused, fast tests first (unit-level where possible), then integration/view-level assertions as needed. For template changes, assert on stable, semantic markers (IDs, roles, or intentionally public classes) rather than brittle HTML fragments.
  3) Run the full test suite before and after changes and do not leave the repository in a failing state.
  4) If removing an existing feature or path, either remove the corresponding tests or replace them with tests that assert the new intended behavior; never leave orphaned tests.
  5) When test flakiness is detected, prioritize stabilizing the test (improve selectors, use deterministic data) over relaxing assertions.

Tooling defaults (standardized)
- Shell: bash first. On Windows, use Git Bash. PowerShell is supported only where explicitly noted.
- CI (GitHub Actions): ubuntu-latest uses bash by default; uv is installed via curl | sh; commands run with uv run ...
- Husky: .husky/pre-commit is POSIX sh and calls `uv run pre-commit run --hook-stage pre-commit`; falls back to `pre-commit` if `uv` is unavailable.
- VS Code: .vscode/settings.json sets terminal.integrated.defaultProfile.windows to "Git Bash"; tasks.json forces bash as the shell for tasks. Launch uses the integrated terminal, so it will use Git Bash.
